Hey it's, Simon from supersimple.dev
Today's video is about a really
important topic if you want to get a job
as a web developer.
So we're going to talk about what are
javascript frameworks
and which one should you learn. So pretty
much every web developer
uses a framework in addition to
javascript to build web applications,
and here's my detailed explanation of
what a framework is.
So the first thing you need to know is
the basics of javascript.
Now if you don't know javascript yet I
have an in-depth tutorial on javascript
and the link to that is in the
description.
Now, I assume that you know javascript at
this point.
So a javascript framework helps you
render stuff.
It's a rendering system. Rendering means
displaying something on a web page.
It's the most common thing you do in web
development.
So for example, if I want to render a
button on my web page,
I can use this code and this is just
html we don't even need javascript yet.
Now let's say that I have a list and I
want to render this list
on my web page. Well we'll use javascript
here to
loop through this list and for each item
we're going to create an html element,
and then add that element to the page. So
that's rendering using javascript.
So a very common task in web development
is: we're going to take some complex data
and we're going to use javascript to
render that data on the web page.
For example let's say that we have a
list of comments on a youtube
video and we want to render it to look
like this.
In the beginning there were no
frameworks so developers just use
plain javascript to render data so this
is the code to render the comments using
plain javascript, and this is the code
using a framework. So as you can see
this code is way easier to read and
write. You can even see the structure of
the html
that you're rendering. So if you use a
javascript,
framework you can write your code like
this, and then the framework basically
converts it into this javascript
for you. And that javascript is going to
render it on the page.
So that's why web developers use
frameworks, it makes our code
so much more simple. Now let's go through
a demo of a real
framework and this is how to use a
framework. So first we have to go to the
frameworks
website and every framework has their
own website. So if you don't know what
that is
we're going to search it in google, so we
can search backbone.js.
Now once we're on the website we're
going to find a copy of the framework's
code,
so a framework is just a bunch of
javascript code
that someone else wrote, it's no
different than the code that you write
yourself.
So we're going to copy all of this code,
and run it in our web page.
So an easy way to do this is just to
copy this url
and then in our web page we can add a
script tag
and we're going to give the script tag
an src attribute.
So this s r c attribute stands for the
source attribute.
It will grab a copy of the code found in
this url,
which is all of the frameworks code, and
it's going to run this code.
So we're going to run the frameworks
code at the top of our website
and that's it. Now you can start writing
your web pages like this,
and the framework will convert it into
javascript and render things
for you. Of course you have to follow the
instructions for how to use the
framework,
so we would have to go back to the
website and
read all the instructions for how to use
it.
And a warning if this is your first time
learning about frameworks, these
instructions can be very hard to
understand.
If you have any questions you can email
me supersimple.dev/feedback
or leave a comment below. So now that we
have a general sense of what a framework
looks like we're going to break down the
three main parts of a framework.
So the first part is rendering, which we
just talked about.
We write our code like this and this is
also known as templating,
we're writing an html template where the
values are filled by our data,
and then the framework takes it, converts
it into javascript, which
then renders our web page. So the second
feature of a framework is data handling.
So all frameworks have a way for you to
put your data in the framework.
And then it will take the data, and
render it for you according to your web
page.
So it will take the values in your data,
and then fill your template with those
values.
And then when the data changes, for
example we add or remove a comment,
the framework will automatically
re-render for you so that your web page
is always
up to date with your data. So the third
feature of a framework is called event
handling,
which means it helps you add event
handlers to your page so instead of
writing button.onclick
in javascript, the framework gives you an
easy way to add event handlers to your
html elements.
This is also known as the mvc
architecture, or model
view controller, and this is what the
majority of javascript frameworks are
built on.
And this is why if you have a good grasp
of mvc, you shouldn't have much trouble
learning a framework and switching from
one framework
to another. If you want to learn more
about mvc, we built an mvc-based app in
my javascript beginner
tutorial, but I'll also make a specific video
about
mvc in the future, so please subscribe
for that.
Now while you're at it if you got value
from this video please click that like
button below so this video reaches more
people
and helps people get tech careers. So
these are the three main features of a
framework, some of them provide more
features than this,
but all frameworks have these three
features.
So the second part of this lesson is
which framework should you learn if you
want to get a job as a web developer.
So in 2021, the front end frameworks you
should consider
are react, vue, or angular and
avoid other front-end frameworks.
Frameworks are created in generations
just like an iphone you have the first
generation, the second gen,
etc if you want to get a job you need to
learn the latest generation of
javascript frameworks.
Because just like an iphone, everyone
wants to use the latest generation,
or they want to upgrade, so right now
react, vue, and angular are the latest
generation of
frameworks, and that's why you should
pick one of these to learn.
So the links to each of these frameworks
are in the description, you can take a
look at them and see which one
interests you. So how long will it be
before a new generation comes out
and these frameworks become outdated?
Well the truth is that no one knows for
sure,
but I'll let you know as soon as it
happens so please be sure to subscribe.
So of these three frameworks which one
should you learn?
So the way this works is frameworks tend
to be popular in certain regions.
So pick the framework that is the most
popular in the region you want to work
in.
For example in the bay area and toronto,
where I've worked companies like to use
react, so I've been using react. And it
might be different for you.
So what I do to figure this out is I go
on linkedin or your country's job search
website,
and then I search for web developer jobs
in the location that I want to work.
And then I make a list of which
frameworks come up most often,
and I learn that one. And if there's
two that come up equally as often,
then you can try them out both and see
which one you like
better. So that's the end of this lesson.
Thanks so much for watching the video,
today we learned what is a javascript
framework and which one should you learn
if you want to get a job as a web
developer.
So each framework has a step-by-step
guide on how to set it up
and you can take a look at them in the
description.
If you have any trouble or if you have
any questions please send me an email
at supersimple.dev/feedback
Thanks again for watching, my name is
Simon from supersimple.dev and I want to
make a tech career possible for
anyone. Stay positive keep learning and
I'll see you in the next one.